== README

This Website Database was create whilst on Work experience with Documobi. This was done to improve my skills with Ruby on Rails and HTML

== What the Library Does

The Library is a database which can be used to help libraries store information about books, users, book loans and overdue books. With it you can create custom users which must have been validated by custom validation checks, such as email checking with regular expressions, making sure that all fields are filled in and that the user does not already exist. I also added a settings page in which fields like default_loan_price where able to be easily changed. The website kept a check on the loans which were currently active and added a table which colour coded the table to the suitable colour depending on whether an active book was overdue, a previous loan had been overdue etc. 

== What I Accomplished

With this I managed to make custom functions which were used to set the fines, check whether, when returning a book, a fine is suitably paid out to the user, depending on how long the book is overdue and what the daily fine price has been set at, which is configurable in the settings menu. 

I made use of Bootstrap 3 for the layout of the website, using the custom tables and button themes provided and standard HTML formatting.

New books can be easily added to the in the books section, which validates ISBN number, author and book name.
I also implemented a dashboard page, which is there to provide quick book loans which start on the day they're ordered. There is also a place to retun books which have been taken out and not returned yet. When a book is taken out for rent by a user, the book becomes unavailable to all other users until the book is returned. If a book is withdrawn for more than the set amount of time in the settings menu, then the user will be fined with a price also set in the settings. This will mean that people will be fined depending on how overdue the loan is and what the base price is.

The User system lets you add users which validates the email with REGEX, the first name and last name for presence and that the birth date is not before the current day. The loans and fines are assigned to each individual person, so you can choose who has taken out the loan, how much they are paying for the book and which book they are taking out. You can also edit user information and remove them.

This website was completed in the week which I had work experience. I started this with no knoledge of either Ruby or HTML, having only previously known python and the basics of Java. This helped me to gain experience in the two languages which will be very useful for my future and will hopefully open up new options for future prospects.


